---
author: jsilvela
comments: true
date: 2015-10-26T11:36:58Z
published: false
slug: what-effs
title: What-effs
url: /2015/10/26/what-effs/
wordpress_id: 1178
---

I've been based in Dublin four months by now, and as I get used to the place,
I'm starting to accept and expect a regular flow of WTF moments.

Being a Spaniard, I should be attuned to a people that are individually fine,
yet live in, and contribute to, an overall system that is sloppy, passive. Yet
some things have happened to me here that wouldn't have in Madrid, and that I
did not expect, given Dublin's reputation as a tech hub and up-and-coming
powerhouse.

There was, for example, that time when the bank agent who opened my bank account
gave me an index card with my account number and IBAN, so I could start getting
my salary transferred, and I found out days later that the account number
contained one digit too many, and that the IBAN too was wrong; that other time
when I told my landlord that the bedroom's four-pane shutter was missing one
pane, and I came back home to find a plywood plank screwed to the shutter to
make up the fourth pane.

There is a prevalence of policies that seem established by the caricatures of
plutocrats.

Traffic lights are set very clearly in favor of cars. Pedestrians get barely two
seconds of green light, and a quick turn to yellow, which lasts longer than the
green light, but sends people crossing an unequivocal message to hurry the fuck
up.

In Dun Laoghaire, the coastal town where I live, there is a nice promenade by
the sea. Next to the promenade there is a sailing club with a parking lot whose
exit crosses it. At the parking lot's exit there is no signage, and cars have
preference over the pedestrians walking on the promenade. I imagine fat ugly men
with strident laughs, club members, so important and busy that on their drive
out they can't be bear to wait for that darn woman pushing her pram to walk
across.

As to public health... I found out that I have to pay 144 euros for my Crohn's
disease medication. In Spain I pay 5 euros for the same medication (same as I
did in Luxembourg). Friends and colleagues tell me that a simple visit to the
doctor will set them back at least 50 euros. Luckily I've been able to keep my
Spanish public health account active, and so I will avoid the Irish system as
much as possible.

There are of course many things to like here too. And I have to say that work
culture is a lot healthier than in the overworked and underpaid South of Europe.
