+++
date = "2018-07-20T23:47:36+02:00"
draft = false
title = "Musings - one of many"

+++

In my last blog post I explained why I was going to start writing to keep track
of what I read or otherwise consume.

Lately I've been low energy. Perhaps the spring, or perhaps having  begun
to run regularly, and with a running club that is pushing me to run hard.

Some things I've learned:

## Old men looking back

A reference in Twitter mentioned Donald Hall, who had just died. The
reference itself was not important, but I read this beautiful article Hall wrote
for The New Yorker: [Between Solitude and Loneliness.](https://www.newyorker.com/culture/culture-desk/double-solitude)

It's plainly written. He drops the word "fuck" nonchalantly. He doesn't seek
sympathy, and is talking very plainly about being alone.
Not in the same style, but it reminds me a bit of Norman Maclean, writing of his
days of youth simply, with sensitivity but not over-emotionality.
This seems to be a genre I enjoy.

## Agriculture

Recently, and again I don't remember how, I saw this twitter feed from an agricultural
scientist, Sarah Taber, talking about the sustainability of veganism vs. meat
consumption. This is an area I know nothing about, but one I find interesting.
I would have not known where to begin.

Her point is that vegetarianism, to be sustainable, depends on a supply of certain
edible nutritious plants that consume lots of water. A field devoted to such plants
feeds more humans than the same extension devoted to cattle, but consumes 1000
times as much water. So, from a sustainability point of view, it makes sense that
populations in dry areas raise ruminants.
[This is the link to the thread.](https://twitter.com/SarahTaber_bww/status/1006363772838170629)

## Ozu

Now and then I try to widen my knowledge of movie classics. Years ago I had
watched Ozu's *Tokyo Story*, considered one of the best movies ever, perhaps
even the best. I had not been that impressed with it, but recently I decided
to give Ozu another shot, and saw *Late Spring*, also a perennial favorite.
And what a brilliant movie it is!

I've watched it a few times, and have bought the DVD for my collection. I also
loved Ozu's *Early Summer* — like *Late Spring*, with the great Setsuko Hara torn
between fulfilling her family's expectations and being true to herself.

The other Ozu films I've seen (*Floating Weeds*, *Good Morning*), while estimable,
are in my view, nowhere close to *Summer* and *Spring*.

I've also explored more of Kurosawa, and I have to say, I don't get why he's so
revered. *Ran*, *Seven Samurai*, *Rashomon*, are all at once boring and
over-emotional to me.

## Shorter bits

* Objects found in [Amsterdam dragging](https://belowthesurface.amsterdam/en/vondsten)
* [Jonathan Franzen on controlling your inputs](https://nyti.ms/2MXWAf3)
* [Jonathan Franzen on Edith Wharton](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2012/02/13/a-rooting-interest)
