---
title: "You've got to cheat a little"
date: 2020-07-08T12:50:10+02:00
draft: false
---

In the documentary *Crumb*, there is a scene where Robert Crumb, the legendary
comic book author, is with his son, who is making a drawing from an old photo of
a woman held in a penitentiary.\
Crumb tells his son that he's missing the
defiant look from the photo, and that he needs to learn to exaggerate features a
bit, to cheat a bit, in order to capture the spirit of his subjects.

Ever since I saw Crumb, in my early twenties, this scene has remained for me the
crystalization of an idea: following rules is often not enough. Even if those
"rules" are well intended, and even if it's not rules you're following, but
advice, or conventional wisdom, or tradition; there is no guarantee that you'll
get the result you wanted.

Yet, unquestioning adherence to rules is everywhere, often coupled with
disappointment. You can see it in the frustration of people who have gone
through long years of university training, only to find that they are less
satisfied with their career than others with less education. Or in the anguish
of people who strive to be a "nice guy", and yet see someone less worthy (in
their view) "get the girl". Or in the pain of strictly observing religious
people who see some heathen be happier or better loved.

In the workplace, this takes a specific form: the belief that your job is to do
as you're told.

There is another movie scene that has stayed with me, this one from *Wall
Street*. Charlie Sheen's character, the ambitious Bud Fox, has started working
for Michael Douglas's iconic Gordon Gekko.\
After a promising start, Gekko is
unimpressed with Bud. Bud confronts Gekko. He's ready to give it his all, what
more does he want? Gekko responds that up to now, all of Bud's success has come
from information handed to him. He wants Bud to go out and get his own
information, to surprise him. The movie follows But as he does just that, and it
ends badly, but the advice is fundamentally good.

Those rules, those pieces of conventional wisdom, even the ones with a real
foundation of success, cannot cover all cases and all motivations.

It is a bit ironic that people feel, or want to feel, unique, and yet think that
following someone else's footsteps will lead them to their unique and special goals.
